---
title: Sever FAQ
slug: server-far
language: en
available_languages: en, de
---

# Is there protection against DDOS attacks?

DDoS (Distributed Denial of Service) attacks have been on the increase recently. These involve remote-controlled networks of compromised computers ("botnets") overloading services on a server by sending a vast number of requests. We offer an anti-DDoS filter with a bandwidth of 2 TB/s for all our root servers, managed servers, and dedicated server solutions. This filter is activated automatically as soon as your server experiences a substantial number of incoming packets or an equivalently high amount of traffic from the internet. Thanks to our comprehensive protection against DDoS attacks, the Anexia DDoS Guard, we protect your infrastructure against attacks up to layer 4.

# How do the Generation 10 VPS differ from Generation 9?

The Generation 10 VPS have more virtual cores and more SSD storage space than the VPS of the previous generation. In addition, the included traffic has been increased to 80 TB/month for all tariffs. Starting with the VPS 1000 tariff, it is possible to select the server location Nuremberg or Vienna at the time of ordering. Due to the increasing demand for high performance and the possibility to select the server location ourselves, we decided to introduce the new VPS Generation 10.

# What is the difference between the VPS Generation 10 and the Generation 10s?

With the VPS Generation 10s (s = small), the server location cannot be selected, but is fixed with the Nuremberg location. With the VPS Generation 10, the server location can be selected between Nuremberg, Vienna or with "no preference" when ordering.

# Is it possible to upgrade from Generation 9 (or older) to Generation 10?

No, it is not possible to upgrade from a previous generation to Generation 10, as the hardware used for the respective generations is always a perfect fit.

# What are the minimum contract periods for Generation 10?

There is still the option of choosing between hourly rates and rates with a 12-month contract term.

# What is meant by hourly-based rates?

With hourly rates, payment is made monthly in advance and is billed on an hourly basis when the contract is terminated. There are no minimum contract periods or notice periods for these rates.

# Are the VPS of the old generation 9 (and older) still available for order?

No, the VPS of the old generations can no longer be ordered.

# What does the designation VIE, NUE and "no preference" mean?

The designation "VIE" or "NUE" means that the physical location of the server is in the data center in Vienna or Nuremberg. The selection "no preference" means that the vServer is hosted at one of the two locations, depending on free capacity.

# What are the advantages of deciding on which location (Nuremberg or Vienna) to host my VPS?

The chosen vServer location always offers the shortest response times for those users who are geographically close. Due to the availability of two different server locations, there is also the possibility to realize GEO-redundant services.

# Do I have any disadvantages if I choose "no preference" for vServer location?

No, the quality of our services is the same at all locations.

# Why are the VPS in Nuremberg and Vienna more expensive compared to "no preference"?

If "no preference" is selected, we can optimize the expansion of our capacities and pass on the resulting cost advantage.

# If I selected "no preference", can the location change after the fact?

No, the location of the vServer cannot be changed after the time of order setup.

# If I already own an older generation vServer, will it be forced to move to a different location in the future?

No, the location of existing vServers will not be changed.

# Can I view the location after placing the order?

Yes, the vServer location can be viewed in the CCP in the product overview.

# Do the VPS at the Vienna site have the same features as those at the Nuremberg site?

Yes, the VPS at the Vienna site have the same features as the VPS at the Nuremberg site.

# Are additional IPs differentiated by location?

Yes, an IP is always permanently assigned to a site. Additional IPs must therefore be booked at the corresponding location.

# Will there also be Storage Space in Vienna and if so, can it be combined with vServer from Nuremberg?

It is not yet clear whether Storage Space will be offered at the Vienna site. In principle, the Storage Space from the Nuremberg site is available in Vienna.

# Are the vServers of the VPS VIE located in netcup's own data centers?

No, the vServers are hosted in a data center of the Anexia Group.

# Will there be more locations in the future?

We are constantly working on expanding our range.

# Who is responsible for customer support for vServers in Vienna?

We have a highly qualified support team that looks after all vServer locations.

# What about data protection at the Vienna vServer location?

In Austria, the same GDPR rules apply as in the entire EU area.

# Can I change the location of my vServer afterwards or automatically migrate an existing server?

No, a subsequent change is not possible. A migration is only possible by a new order at the desired location and manual transfer of all data.

# Can the products be combined with vouchers?

Yes, all three variants can be combined with vouchers (except for hourly-based tariffs).

# How do I contact the Vienna site support?

As before, via all communication channels listed on our support website.

# My question is not listed here. Where can I find an answer?

If you have any further questions, please contact our support.
