---
title: Sever Overview
slug: server-overview
language: en
available_languages: en, de
---

# What is netcup Server?

netcup Server encompasses our range of server products. Our server offerings provide you with access to fully remote compute systems. We manage the infrastructure and hardware and provide you with a simple-to-use, easy-to-understand suite of control panels that allow you to configure your server depending on your needs.

netcup Server comes with support for a variety of operating systems including both numerous Linux distributions and Microsoft Windows Server.

The main purpose of netcup Server is the easy hosting of online applications from simple web pages to Nextcloud and Wordpress instances, and any other software you may need.

With netcup, you benefit from our highly rated data centers. Our data centers are well regarded due to an elevated level of redundancy for networking, cooling, and power, ensuring that your application will be available at minimum 99.6% per year.

# What variants of server does netcup offer?

At netcup, we distinguish between vServers (VPS) and Root Servers. Both server types are split off from powerful physical servers. One such server can host multiple virtual machines that run completely independently and in isolation from each other with a range of options concerning the operating system, CPU, storage, and RAM. The main differences between these classes are listed below:

| Category               | VPS    | Root Server |
|------------------------|--------|-------------|
| Dedicated CPU cores    | N      | Y           |
| Guaranteed RAM         | Y      | Y           |
| SSD hard disk optional | Y      | Y           |
| Minimum availability   | 99.6 % | 99.9 %      |
| Satisfaction guarantee | N      | Y           |
| Hourly billing         | Y      | N           |

# What are the key features?

Multiple CPU, RAM, and storage options
* Easy & quick setup
* Full VM root access
* Customers can use premade operating system images for quick setup
* Customers can choose the operating system and upload their own ISO
* Hosted on servers within our high-redundancy data center
* Easy to use control panel to monitor your virtual server
* Console access directly from the control panel within your browser
* DDoS protection with 2 TB/s
* SSL/TLS certificates (Optional add-on)
* Snapshots (Optional add-on)

# How long does an order take to be processed?

You should receive access to your server within 15 minutes of ordering.