---
title: Sever Getting Started Changing Disk Space
slug: server-gettingstarted-storageexpansion
language: en
available_languages: en, de
---

If needed, you can add additional storage to your server at any time.

# 1 Accessing the CCP

Open your Customer Control Panel (CCP) and go to the "Products" section in the navigation bar on the left. Look for the server you want to modify and click the magnifying glass next to the "Account Name".

Here you can make changes to your server's current configuration.

# 2 Adding storage

> **Warning**
> Please note that adding storage to your server will increase your monthly bill.

To add storage to your server, go to the "Storage" tab and under "package:" select the storage amount you would like to add. The additional monthly fee that will be added to your bill for the selected storage upgrade is displayed under "Fee/month". This is a monthly fee that will be added to all future bills. Accept the charges and contractual conditions at the bottom of the page and click "Order Storage".

# 3 Applying additional storage to your server

Once you have increased the available storage space, you will have to manually apply the increased size to your server's hard disk partition.

> **Note**
> The following section explains all the necessary steps for most Linux distributions.

Enter the following command to list all available partitions and storage devices:

```
lsblk
```

The output should look like this:

```
NAME MAJ:MIN RM SIZE RO TYPE MOUNTPOINT
sda 8:0 0 1000G 0 disk
└─sda1 8:1 0 1000G 0 part /
```

Write down the name of your partition. It should be an entry that starts with "sda" and has a number at the end, in our example above: "sda1".

Next, run the following command to extend your partition to the additional storage. Keep in mind that "sda1" is just our example that needs to be substituted by the partition name you found out in the previous step:

```
growpart /dev/sda1
```

Finally, resize the file system by running the following command (again, keep in mind that you may have to use a different name than "sda1"):

```
resize2fs /dev/sda1
```

Now you have successfully resized your system storage and should be able to use the new, larger storage space.
